In order to understand the popularity of Linux, we need to travel back in time, about 30 years ago...
lmagine computers as bigas houses. even stadiums.Whilethe sizes of those computers.posed substantial problems.there..wes one thing that made this evenworse: every computerhad adfferent operating system.Software wasalways.
customized to serve a specific purpose, and software for one given system didn't run on another system. Being able to workwith one system didn't automatically mean that you could work with another. It was difficult, both for the users and the
system administrators.
Computers were extremely expensive then, and sacrifices had to be made even after the original purchase just to get theusers to understand how they worked.The total cost of lT was enormous.
Technologically the world was not quite that advanced, so they had to live with the size for another decade. In 1969, a teamof developers in the Bell Labs laboratories started working on a solution for the software problem, to address these
compatibility issues. They developed a new operating system, which was
simple and elegant
written in the C programming language instead of in assembly codeable to recycle code.
The Bell Labs developers named their project "UNIX."
The code recycling features were very important. Until then, all commercially available computer systems were written in acode specifically developed for one system.UNIX on the other hand needed only a small piece of that special code, which isnow commonly named the kernel. This kernel is the only piece of code that needs to be adapted for every specific systemand forms the base of the UNIX system. The operating system and all other functions were built around this kernel andwritten in a higher programming language,C.This language was especially developed for creating the UNIX system. Usingthis new technique, it was much easier to develop an operating system that could run on many different types of hardware.The software vendors were quick to adapt, since they could sell ten times more software almost effortlessly. Weird newsituations came in existence: imagine for instance computers from different vendors communicating in the same network,or users working on different systems without the need for extra education to use another computer. UNIX did a great dealto help users become compatible with different systems.
Throughout the next couple of decades the development of UNIX continued. More things became possible to do and morehardware and software vendors added support for UNIX to their products.
UNIX was initially found only in very large environments with mainframes and minicomputers (note that a PC is a 'micro"computer).You had to work at a university , for the government or for large financial corporations in order to get yourhands on a UNIX system.
